---
date: 2025-01-20
tags:
  - dailynotes
  - kubernetes
---
### Not from class


Difference between POD, Deployment and container

| Container                  | Pod                          | Deployment                          |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Has docker file            | has yaml file                | yaml                                |
| command `docker run nginx` | `kubectl create -f pod.yaml` | `kubectl create -f deployment.yaml` |
|                            |                              |                                     |

**Controller**: - Ensures desired state is always present in the cluster.
**Pod**:- A wrapper around container that maintain desired state.
**ReplicaSet** - A controller that carries autohealing behaviour.


Login to kubernetes cluster with minkube
`minikube ssh`

**Deplyoyment** - Is an abstraction.

Controller is golang application which ensures specific behaviour is implemented.
eg. - ReplicaSet behaviour ensures desired replicas are always present.

**Autohealing** - spawns the containers with different ip addresses
hence we create service

svc ---- 1. load balancer
|-------- 2. Service Discovery
|                    |------- labels and selector
|-------- 3. expsoing to the world


autohealing without service ----
deployment
pod ---- 172.16.3.4     ----> user 1
rs1----     172.16.3.5  ----> user 2
rs2  ---    172.16.3.6 ----> user 3

but if one pod gets deleted auto healing will create another pod with different ip address and user not knowing new ip address unable to access it

hence service comes in handy

**Service** (eg. load balancer) will have single ip and all users will get ip of service and service will distribute traffic among pods and rs.

but when pods gets respawn with new ip how does service knows its ip
for that service has this feature called **service discovery** 

how service does service discovery
unlike manually keeping track of ip addresses which can change everytime service use **labels and selectors** mechanism.
service maintains service discovery through labels and selectors.
label will be common for all the app and service will only be watching for the labels.

Service is also use for exposing your application to outside world.
service is allow application to access outiside k8s cluster.

You can create service of 3 types 

Service.YAML
    |_ _ _ _ _ 1. Cluster IP (inside accessible) [ you get discovery and lb]
    |_ _ _ _ _ 2. Node Port (inside organisation or network\ access worker node ) 
    |_ _ _ _ _ 3. Load balancer ( service is accessible to external world)

load balancer only work for cloud based k8s like EKS

load balancer ----> amazon.com
Node Port ---> VPC and nodes
CLUSTER IP ---> Cluster Network 